# Botangisi Smartphone Computer project 
The goal of the Botangisi Smartphone Computer project is to make sure that the technological evolution of the smartphone goes in a direction which is beneficial to the educational system both in Congo RDC and other Sub-Saharan countries.  
The Botangisi Smartphone Computer is a phone that when attached to an external monitor and keyboard may be used as a computer. The Smartphone Computer, in combination with a Lapdock (a portable device that includes keyboard, monitor and battery), can provide teachers and students with an affordable option suitable for personal use, schools and professionals.  
The ongoing consumer demand amongst high-income countries has dictated the evolution of the smartphone inflicting a disadvantage on the development of beneficial technologies to lower income consumers. 
The aim of the [Ministry of Primary, Secondary and Technical Education (MEPST)](https://www.eduquepsp.education/v1/) in  the Democratic Republic of the Congo, in cooperation with the Botangisi Association and other partners, is to make the market of smartphones and devices appealing to manufacturers and to develop affordable devices that better serve the needs of people living in Congo.  
### The reform of accounting teaching
The Ministry of Primary, Secondary and Technical Education (MEPST) in the Democratic Republic of the Congo has more than 500’000 teachers and 20 million students. After Congo RDC joined the [OHADA organization](https://www.ohada.com/) in 2013, the MEPST started to reform the teaching of accounting to adapt to the new OHADA accounting rules and introduce the use of computers and software. 
The introduction of the newly assisted methodology software for teaching accounting has proved to improve students’ knowledge, easing their entry into the modern workplace. Unfortunately, only a limited number of schools, among more than  4000 that have a commercial option, have access to computers in the classroom. 
### The challenge of making computers accessible to students
Digital technologies can provide many benefits to the educational field, but most schools, teachers and students in Congo RDC cannot afford to buy personal computers. The MEPST has consequently evaluated different options:
##### Classrooms with computers
The estimated cost of the project to create one classroom for each school with a computer would require an investment of 200 millions USD. MESPT’s priority is to currently provide free schools for all students in the primary classes. Finding the necessary funds is currently out of reach. Installing a computer in each school is also a logistical challenge due to the instability or lack of electricity and internet. Moreover, installing and managing computers requires qualified personnel and may be quite costly. Nevertheless, having just one classroom per school is not sufficient for all the students. 
##### Bring Your Own Device (BYOD)
Most schools in wealthier countries are adopting the BYOD concept. The students themselves purchase and manage the computers both at school and at home. This is for sure the best solution for students taking commercial classes, but in Congo RDC, the GDP pro capita is less than 500 USD, therefore buying a computer or a tablet is financially out of reach for most students.  
##### Smartphone as a computer 
Smartphone technology is evolving very fast. Thanks to the high volumes of production, smartphones are becoming more and more powerful and affordable. Modern smartphone processors have the same computational capacity of desktop computers, and the smartphone technology is currently being used by large companies, such as Apple, to power new computer lines. 
Moreover, from a software point of view, the future is to use the smartphone as a computer. The Android and iOS Operating System for smartphones are also used for Tablets (iPad), supporting the use of larger screens and external monitors. They behave almost as desktop computers by opening many windows at once and running multiple tasks with operating systems and sharing the same performance standards as desktop computers. 
Despite their advanced properties, they are not the first choice in professional environments compared to desktop OS like Windows and MacOS. On the other hand, in wealthier regions of the world, people would choose a smartphone and a laptop over a computer. Devices like Lapdock, that allow to use a smartphone as a laptop, are still not appealing to the consumer. 
Introducing the option to use a smartphone as a laptop would be very interesting for Congo and other Sub-Saharan countries, but currently only smartphones in the higher price range may attach  external monitors making the choice unattainable. 
### The Smartphone Computer and Lapdock 
The smartphone computer is a smartphone with the same functions as a Laptop through the connection to a Lapdock. 
The LapDock is a portable computer similar to a laptop, with monitor, keyboard, battery and port connections, but it does not have a processor, RAM nor local storage (sort of a dummy laptop). Once the LapDock is attached to a smartphone with an external monitor, it may have the equivalent use of a laptop whilst functioning as the central processor unit and communication device of a lapdock.  
Current prices of lapdocks vary between 150 and 300 USD, estimating a decrease between 90 and 150 USD if a high-volume production and smaller screen size versions are implemented.  
In Congo RDC smartphones are essential everyday tools allowing people to communicate, take pictures, videos, access basic information, entertainment, learning material, social media and services like payments. More and more people and families will be in the financial position to buy a smartphone, but only very few will be able to afford a computer, meaning that implementing smartphones as computers would be a precious gain for many, especially professionals, teachers, and students.  
### In line with the technical evolution
The USB-Cable is becoming a standard for most electronic devices and smartphones. The new USB-C standard 4.0 already includes a Display port. Only modern desktop and laptop computers currently conform to the USB-C 4.0 but in the future smartphone producers will also adopt the USB-C 4.0 standards, giving all new smartphones, even the more affordable ones, the capability to attach external monitors and operate as computers. 
Once you attach the smartphone to a lapdock you get a full portable computer. (see https://www.zdnet.com/product/nexdock-360-touch/) 
### A lapdock is a sensible choice:
- It uses less power (mostly for monitors), compared to having a separate laptop.
- It can power and charge the attached phone, so that even small phones can work all day. 
- It can be used as an external monitor also for computers, like Rasberry, NUC or PC on a Stick.  
- It has a long-lasting charge and supports different generations of phones. 
- It can be made easy to repair and durable (same concept as the Framework Computer).
### Creating a market for affordable Smartphone computers 
The demand for smartphone computers is currently very limited since people in developed countries are not interested and they are too expensive for lower income countries.  
The MEPST believes that this market dynamic can be changed. The idea is to create a reference design for an affordable smartphone computer and invite teachers of all grades and students from the technical branches to buy this type of device. The Congo RDC is a highly populated country meaning that over the years a market of millions of units may be created.   
This concept needs to be discussed with smartphone producers as the technical evolution heads towards a convergence of smartphones and computers, becoming the starting point of a successful initiative.  
With affordable smartphone computers and lapdocks costing between 100 and 150 USD, we believe families would consider such devices.  
The MEPST is convinced that helping promote a smartphone computer among teachers and students, could open interesting business opportunities for smartphone producers and therefore push the technical development in a direction which is complimentary both to Congo consumers and the educational system.  
### Botangisi role 
In order for this initiative to thrive, the support of an array of partners, technical experts, hardware producers, financial supporters, and other educational entities is vital. A nonprofit organization dedicated to improving the use of technology in the educational sector, simplifies connections and facilitates interest in the project. Over decades similar projects in the high-tech sector have been coordinated and carried out by nonprofit entities (Linux, Apache and many others). 
The Botangisi Association, with the support of MEPST and other partners, will be able to get the attention of various manufacturers creating a market for Smartphone Computers suitable for Congo and other Sub-Saharan countries. 

#### Property of Botangisi